The Joe Rogan experience. You know,
the radical honesty people have you seen this group?
It's the people that are like, you never lie about anything.
So it's this weird social experiment where they're just like, you know,
where they're, where they're with their loved ones or whatever.
And the loved ones were like, do you like my shirt? And they're like, no,
it looks bad. And you've gained weight. Right. And like, there's, it's,
it's radical transparency about everything. And that,
that I understand where they're coming from. Right.
It's like this thought that like, we're all sort of laid bare to each other. Um,
but also like, it's great that we can keep things private. Like,
what we live in right now is the sort of grassroots. I mean,
I call it a grassroots panopticon. Right. We're all watching each other,
but it's not the government. It's not big brother. We're big brother. Right.
And that I want to keep stuff. I like, I like PR, like, I.
Know what you're saying. I don't want you to look at my brain.
I know what you're saying.
I agree with you to a certain extent. But however, um,
I'm a standup comic.
And one of the things that I love about being a stand-up comic is my friends are
all brutally honest and they with me and we with each other Lego. I said,
do you like this shirt? And he'd be like, no dummy. It looks stupid on you.
They will say something like that. We both be like, ah,
they would say something like, do you think I gained weight? Like, you know,
you gain weight. Get on the scale. You fat. And they'll say that to you.
And I started laughing. We w there's no, in the comedy world,
like in the world of my friends, there's no room for dishonesty.
And if they think you're bullshitting,
they don't want to talk to you because it's no fun.
I think comedians are uniquely.
Strong in that way though. I, so as someone to write for me,
like my thing was like rationale. Like I liked rationality was like, oh,
we have a good argument. Like, I'll just have a logical argument with you.
Right. But like one of the things I realized and this one, you know,
when I was there at that place in,
in Florida where this charlatan is killing people,
I can't just tell those people the truth. That's crazy. I wish I could,
but they're dying and they're in pain and there's certain people who are
constitutionally. They like honesty all the time. They thrive on it,
even when they're in pain. Right.
But there's a lot of people where logic or honesty.
That's just not the, that's not, they're going to suffer. They're going to,
they're going to suffer. No.
I, I agree. I think you're right about that. That there's,
there's certain people that you really shouldn't like, you know,
if you're talking to a delicate person and they ask you a question and it's,
there's nothing wrong with just being complimented. Well, you look good.
You look great. You look great. I like doing that too. I have a kid.
One of my things, my wife, so my kid would come to me with drawings. Right.
You're like, you know, kid comes with a trunk. Right. And she'd be like, dad,
look at this and I'd be like, oh.
I was like, I was like, Hazel, that's not your best work. And my wife was like,
what do you mean? What is wrong with you? And I was.
Like, well, I should just, I don't want her to like, and she's like, no,
it's a kid. She just wants love from her dad. Right. You tell her like,
that's a great day. You know, did a great job.
And I don't want to infantilize adults, but like, there are times when I am,
when I just need, you know, love or like,
I need someone to keep their thoughts to themselves. Um, and, and, uh, yeah.
I don't know. I, I, I know what you mean. I don't know.
I haven't been in a lot of pain. Joe is the truth. I haven't, I've been,
I've led this charmed life. I've led it on. Someone said,
like I've led it on difficulty level. Like pretty easy setting, you know,
my, my personally life. And like, I've been lucky.
I haven't been like super sick,
like who knows what kinds of crazy healing therapies I would be into.
I mean,
there was a guy there's a guy at duke who specializes in ALS Rick Bedlack
you, photos of him are incredible because he dresses in wonky outfits,
like flashy, like tuxedos and crazy ties and stuff. And I was like, Rick,
why do you, why do you dress in all these outfits? And he's like,
because it's the best,
because it's the best thing I can offer my patients is these
is I don't, I can't tell them the scientific studies. They're not here for that.
Right.
I don't have anything to offer my ALS patients in terms of like science or
rationality,
but what I can do is just make them feel lighthearted for a moment.
And I was like, do you tell them, like when they come into the office,
do you tell them like the truth, you know, which is like, basically like you're,
you're done for, you know, and he's like, you know, obviously not, right.
You don't just tell people who are in pain, the truth,
or at least you don't there's there's I dunno for me,
I've really pulled back from
I've really pulled back really recently from,
from the idea that truth-telling is the way to
engage with people who are in pain. Right.
I think a lot of what we're seeing right now with black lives matter,
a lot of what we see with, with, um, with transgender activism, uh,
all of the hot button, political issues often, right. Change is there's.
There are groups of people who have been in pain for very long time. Um,
and individuals within those groups have been in pain. And,
and that, I don't know. I think it's just important to sort of acknowledge that.
And I had a lot of trouble doing that. I would be like, well, here's the truth?
Like, here's your situation. Here's how you need to fix it. And like,
but that's not, I don't know. That's,
that's not necessarily it doesn't work and it's not necessarily what people
want.
Yeah. Well, in those two particular subjects, too,
you're dealing with people that are,
that will get very upset if you do offer anything
that,
anything that contradicts their narrative.
Yeah. Well, and if, you know, if someone's in,
if someone's in pain or if someone's like literally trying, I mean, if they're,
if you're trying to change a situation for the better, right, there's all,
you can always throw nuance and you can always have a logical argument about
something, but I I've become, and I'm not saying like, don't say stuff. I I'm,
I'm very on board with like, you want freedom, right?
Like I want to be able to say, chiropractor's a. I want to do that. But like,
if there's someone who was struggling with chronic back pain forever and
found a chiropractor and they come back from that chiropractor and they say to
me, Allen, for the first time in my life,
I feel like there's some hope this chiropractor helped me.
If I have that thing in my brain.
I don't say it. Yeah. I'm with you, I'm with you. I'd be like, that's great.
I'd be like, that's great. That's just being kind. Yeah. You value kindness.
And I think that's an awesome thing to value and I value that as well.
And I think that's something that I've learned as I've gotten older is that you
don't always have to say what you think you could just be nice.
And I've seen, I've saw, I saw you do this. Like I love this moment.
I don't know. I forget which podcast it was on. You were like,
you were talking about something and then you were like,
you looked down and you were like, wait, I think,
I think we're making fun of this person. And this is what you said.
And I feel like, and that was a moment, right? We was like, you want to like,
yeah, you want to be kind right. And, and honesty. It that's the difficult,
the sometimes ridiculous things or illogical things are the
kind thing. And I I'm really struggling now.
And I hope, I just wish everyone were struggling to realize that that those are,
those are sometimes incommensurable values.
You can't sometimes be honest or tell the truth and also be kind at the same
time. Right. There's this book a God, what is it about a kid who's um, I,
I can't believe I'm blanking on the book now,
but it's a kid who was severely disfigured. Um,
and it was a book for young adults. And, uh,
and there's this moment in that book where one of the T the teacher puts on the
board when you're given the choice between being right and being kind,
always choose being kind. And I was like, when I first read that, I was like,
that's so stupid, man.
You can be the way to be kind is by hoping someone be right.
Like tell them the truth. Right. But just to share.
That thought, but I'm now in the group of be kind. Yeah.
And as I've gotten older, first of all, I never sat out. I never,
I never,
I never went out with the idea that I would create something that millions of
people would see, never, this was not a,
this is just something that happened along the way. And as it was happening,
I became more and more aware of the impact.
And then the responsibility that comes with that impact.
And just through that process has made me a far nicer person,
because I'm also, I'm really aware of, you know, mean.
Like I never, I don't, I don't want to attack people. I don't like it. I don't,
I'd rather just not, you know, and I don't, I don't even want, like,
if someone says to me before the podcast and they have before, Hey,
would you do me a favor and not talk about this weird thing that happened to me?
I'm like, I don't want to make you uncomfortable. I don't,
we could talk about a million things. You're a human being. I'm a human being.
There's not like a specific, I don't want, I don't want gotcha. Moments.
If you want to talk about something that's in your heart that you want to get
out, I'll talk to you about it, but I'm not, I'm not a mean person, you know?
And when I was younger, I was, and when I was younger, I was,
I was in the group of that, tell them the truth. They need to face reality,
get your together. And then, and as I've gotten older,
I've realized like, there's not,
that's me worried about myself falling short.
That's me worry about worrying about my own failures and then wanting
to sort of reinforce my own philosophies and other people,
because I was insecure.